coordinator review
score 3/6

Type of Submission

Linguistics, Psychology

The Review

The manuscript reports research using a telephone paradigm (A reads a story and
tells B, B tells C, .C tells D....) to assess changes in the story where the
starting points of the story are at different extremes. The results look like
regression, perhaps not a surprising finding and not different from Barlett's
classic work.
For a more nuanced view on how point of view affects retellings, the authors might
look at Tversky, B., & Marsh, E. (2000). Biased retellings of events yield biased
memories. Cognitive Psychology, 40, 1-38.

----------------------------------------------------------------

reviewer 1 review
score 5/6

Type of Submission

Cognitive Science, Psychology

The Review

This is an investigation of the effects of repeated recall (a la Bartlett) on
perceptions of evidence strength that will be of interest to Cognitive Science
attendees. The manuscript is well-written. The reported results are of
interest and the analyses are generally appropriate. Of perhaps greater value,
however, is the corpus of recalled texts and reader ratings created in the study.
I recommend acceptance with the understanding that the authors will address the
following:

Questions/issues:

1) Is Jaccard distance a commonly used metric in free recall studies, or for
comparing texts?
2) You say you recruited 5392 MTurk subjects and excluded 547 (12 + 535), leaving
4573. That does not add up. Is there an error in the manuscript, or did I miss
something?
3) In the preliminary discussion you say, “The guilt related measures are
entirely uncorrelated with the secondary measures.” It is not clear to me what in
the reported results supports this conclusion - there were no reported correlation
coefficients between the individual measures nor between groups of measures
(guilt-related and secondary measures). Your results *do* convincingly show that
the manipulation of evidence strength differentially affected those two categories
of measures, but I can’t find anything in your results that directly addresses the
correlation between the categories of measures themselves.
4) In the analysis of Experiment 2 using linguistic features as predictors of
residual slider rating, number of words in each generation of recall reproductions
was a significant predictor. In a separate analysis (if I understood the results
correctly; it was difficult to follow exactly how many regression models were
tested and what predictors and outcome variables each included), proportion of
hedges was a significant predictor as well. Do any of your analyses allow us to
evaluate whether proportion of hedges explains any variance not already explained
by number of words? The simplest explanation for the changes observed across
generations would be that the reduced effects on guilt ratings across generations
was simply due to each generation having fewer words in the story. Is there
anything in the results that indicates anything more than number of words is
necessary to explain the results?
5) Will the corpus be made available to other researchers at some point?
6) Is this pre-registered with OSF or some similar organization? Do you have
plans to make the data and analyses publicly available upon publication?

----------------------------------------------------------------

reviewer 2 review
score 2/6

Type of Submission

Anthropology, Linguistics, Psychology

The Review

The manuscript reveals that participants engaged for course credit,
but not the manner by which this was managed. More generally, the
paper does not reveal whether the research was put to an independent
research ethics review, even though it evidently obliged participation
from undergraduate students.

A claim in presenting the results of Experiment 1 is slightly over-general:

"Figure 2 shows that DJ increased across generations (Beta = 0.05, SE =
0.00, t = 14.17, p < 0.0001). This is not This is not surprising given
that as story length decreases, DJ between seed and any of its
reproductions necessarily increases."

Consider the narratives in (0), (1) and (2)

(0) The cat ate the beans from the tins
(1) The cat ate the beans from tins
(2) The cat ate beans from tins

The cardinality of (0) intersected with (1) is 6; The cardinality of
(1) intersected with (2) is 6; the cardinality of (0) unioned with (1)
is 6; the cardinality of (1) unioned with (2) is 6. Jacard distance
across these narratives of decreasing length is constant at 0. Therefore,
contra the claim in the manuscript, it is not the case that Jaccard distance
necessarily increases with decreased narrative length.

It would be useful to see more descriptive statistics for the corpus,
including the average type and token count across tellings and a more
complete picture of the slider ratings (including minimum and
maximum!).

The analyses conducted appear to be well motivated and reveal striking
effects. Additional analysis would be welcome, addressing the fact
that the "weak evidence" condition frequently receives well below a
mean of 50 in the slider rating, and that the slider rating never
appears to exceed 80 for any condition. The gap between 80 and 100
merits analysis, as well as the hovering near 50.

The work is topical with clear relations to viral communications, such
as "fake news".

The colour plots do not render well in monochrome. In the strongest
possible advise against producing plots that are ambiguous when
printed using greyscale.

One of the contributions of the work is an interestingly constructed
corpus which allows the testing of linguistic features that are used
to express evidence, and testing of how narrative chains flow. If the
corpus were collected in an ethical manner, it would indeed be a
useful contribution of the work for the data to be made available to
the research community. However, if the work has not had the benefit
of research ethics review, the paper should be rejected.

----------------------------------------------------------------